Meta 274 sip 2 0 closing the eark gap (#130)
viaacode/documentation: docs/diginstroom/sip/2.0/profiles/material-artwork.md

---
layout:       default
title:        Material artwork
parent:       Profiles
grand_parent:  2.0
nav_order:    3
nav_exclude:  false
---
Editor's Draft
{: .label .label-yellow }
# Profile: Material artwork 

The _Material artwork_ profile supports digital reproductions of artworks that are moveable material objects, often, but not always, displayed in or maintained by museums. 
This includes photographic registration of 2D artworks, such as paintings or drawings, in high and very high (gigapixel) resolution and high-polygon scans of 3D artworks, such as statues or sculptures.

This content profile specifies how to package different media files (e.g., TIFF, JPEG, OBJ or MTL), their metadata and the relationships between them in a meemoo SIP package.
It also allows extensions to the descriptive metadata using [Schema.org](https://schema.org).

> **Permalink:** <https://data.hetarchief.be/id/sip/2.0/material-artwork>

Reviewer: All permalinks (or basically all links with https://data.hetarchief.be/id/) now resolve to unexisting, and closed of resources in the meemoo triplyDB PRD instance.

- Only the MD5 hashing algorithm is allowed to compute the fixity, thus:
  - The value of element `premis:premis/premis:object[@xsi:type="premis:file"]/premis:objectCharacteristics/premis:fixity/premis:messageDigestAlgorithm` MUST be set to `MD5`.
  - The value of attribute `premis:premis/premis:object[@xsi:type="premis:file"]/premis:objectCharacteristics/premis:fixity/premis:messageDigestAlgorithm/@valueURI` MUST be set to `"http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/preservation/cryptographicHashFunctions/md5"`.

### Package METS

- The `csip:CONTENTINFORMATIONTYPE` attribute MUST be set to `OTHER` and the `csip:OTHERCONTENTINFORMATIONTYPE` attribute MUST be set to `https://data.hetarchief.be/id/sip/2.0/material-artwork`.
- The `TYPE` attribute in the `mets.xml` file MUST be set to
  - `Photographs - Digital` (for 2D objects) or
  - `Scanned 3D Objects (output from photogrammetry scanning)` (for 3D objects).
- The `mets/dmdSec/mdRef/@MDTYPE` attribute MUST be set to `OTHER` and `mets/dmdSec/mdRef/@OTHERMDTYPE` attribute must be set to `DC+SCHEMA`.
  

### Descriptive Metadata

- A descriptive metadata file `descriptive/dc+schema.xml` describing the IE MUST be present at the package level.

> - A descriptive metadata file `descriptive/dc+schema.xml` describing the representation MAY be present at the representation level (eg. to indicate diverting licenses). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A descriptive metadata file `descriptive/dc+schema.xml` describing the representation MAY be present at the representation level (e.g. to indicate diverting licenses). 
```

> - Descriptive metadata in `dc+schema.xml` MUST be limited to the [DCTERMS](https://www.dublincore.org/specifications/dublin-core/dcmi-terms/) and [SCHEMA](http://schema.org) elements outlined in the [basic profile]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link docs/diginstroom/sip/2.0/profiles/basic.md %}#dc-requirements).

Reviewer: What is the big difference between the basic and this profile then, is this one is limited to the same descriptive metadata?

- The [DCTERMS](https://www.dublincore.org/schemas/xmls/qdc/dcterms.xsd) and [SCHEMA](http://schema.org) metadata MUST follow the [basic profile requirements]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link docs/diginstroom/sip/2.0/profiles/basic.md %}#dc-requirements) regarding the use of elements and attributes.
- Some descriptive metadata elements of datatype [String]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link docs/diginstroom/sip/1.1/2_terminology.md %}#string) MUST contain an attribute `@xml:lang` that indicates the language of the metadata element's value (in order to, for example, specify a title or description in multiple languages); these are indicated with `[@xml:lang=*]` in the table below. Other elements MUST NOT contain this attribute.

> - The value of the `@xml:lang` attribute MUST be a valid [IETF BCP 47 language tag](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp47)(see [here](https://www.iana.org/assignments/language-subtag-registry/language-subtag-registry) for a list). 

Reviewer: Perhaps the 'IMPORTANT' note regarding xml:lang included in the basic profile, should be moved to the index.md of the profiles section? That way it's valid for all profiles at once and shouldn't be repeated each time?

Author: This would probably be missed by readers. I prefer profiles to be as self-contained as possible.
